>[Why Programming Video](https://www.loom.com/embed/90d2915c9ba040229cf189dcb7ae2b8b?sid=7942de00-d2ce-4b62-af55-ab50b7164cd4)

If you’re here, you are motivated to learn programming. However, you may still have doubts about it. With that in mind, let us give you FIVE reasons why you should learn to program.

1. You Can Create Anything You Want 

Computer programming, like no other job, gives you the opportunity to digitize your ideas. This idea can include an app you wanted to create and thought would go viral once you put it in the market. Or use it to automate your life, like the programmer who wrote scripts to email his wife and make his coffee.

2. You Will Understand How Software Works

Programming will get you familiar with the software, programs, devices, and websites and will help you understand them. Due to this familiarization, you will grasp and adopt new technology tools much more quickly.

3. No Need for a Four-Year Degree

While one of the paths to becoming a programmer is to earn a computer science degree, you can certainly become one without a degree. Many Software Engineering jobs don’t require a computer science or an IT degree; instead, they’re interested in your coding abilities. That’s the reason you’re here! An apprenticeship is an effective path into this field.

4. High Income Potential 

Money can be motivation in most jobs and the case with programming is no different. Most jobs you can get with programming skills tend to have higher than average salaries. However, there is a reason it is so high-paying, it is NOT EASY!

5. It Teaches You Persistence

Learning computer programming teaches you to see the problems in the light of solutions. For every problem you may face, you start to brainstorm ideas on how to solve it.  You will become more comfortable with failing multiple times and then feeling the gratification of finding a potential solution to a difficult problem. Fruitful results that come out of brainstorming and fixing problems will give you a positive outlook, and toughen you up to act on the problem however hard it may be. "The Tree of Knowledge has Bitter Roots and Sweet Fruits" 

Aside from all of these reasons, programming can just be fun. We hope you can find joy in the world of programming, and build a better future for yourself and the world!

Click the “Next” button below to continue.