>[Why JavaScript Video](https://www.loom.com/embed/00fcd8248ed1408fb2198a0b8241212e?sid=34f24dbc-bdd5-45a7-bf58-39bef1224403)

OK, so you should learn to Program. But there are literally hundreds of languages out there. Why should you start with JavaScript? Well, here’s why.

1. **JavaScript is the most popular language among developers**. According to this report from [Stack Overflow](https://insights.stackoverflow.com/survey/2021#most-popular-technologies-language), JavaScript has been the most commonly used programming language, for the ninth year in a row. Over half of all developers use JavaScript. JavaScript is the most popular language above Java, C#, Ruby, and more.

2. **There’s a low threshold to start learning JavaScript.** JavaScript is the language that browsers use. It’s easy for programmers to start learning and to understand. You can get going right away--unlike other languages, you don’t have to install a bunch of programs before you can even begin.

3. **JavaScript is a fun, interactive language.** When you’re learning JavaScript, you have a full user interface to play with right away.  You can write code that will run in your browser, so you can build interactive projects earlier on in the learning process.

4. **Strong support for learning**. Every browser comes with source code viewing features that let you learn from other people's live code. Plus, JavaScript has the largest and most active repository of library code in the world. People in the JavaScript community are very active and supportive in sharing and making use of each other's code – JavaScript has a large community on StackOverflow. Beginners, don’t be shy – you can share your code too!

5. **Great debugging tools for learning**. An interactive JavaScript interpreter is built right into the browser, allowing you to experiment and get instantaneous feedback, which helps you learn faster.

6. **It’s a great foundational language for learning even more powerful programming styles.** Though JavaScript is a great choice as your first programming language, you will eventually have to learn other languages. As it turns out, JavaScript is a great language to learn how to program in general. JavaScript comes out of the box with support for the event-driven programming style, where the flow of your code is controlled by user events or system events. This style of programming is absolutely necessary for building user interfaces and is also a very helpful paradigm for designing scalable server-side systems. A programmer who learns JavaScript can easily port over this knowledge to a different programming language.

In summary, Javascript is an essential tool in any programmer's tool belt that allows for dynamic, interactive, and multi-purpose applications. Javascript is eating the world.