>[How to Measure Your Success Video](https://www.loom.com/embed/522a3a34c8884e96b065ae4e49bff666?sid=22b061c4-4475-4f11-b7bb-850279d39ee6)

We mentioned in the first lesson that most of our apprentices categorize this Apprenticeship Program as **one of the most transformative experiences** they have gone through in their lifetime.  

We did not mention that because of the intensity of information in this program, many reach a point at which they are outwitted, befuddled, and downright discouraged. Often, this is sooner rather than later.  

Apprentices often say things like “Everyone is ahead of me” or “I’m not cut out for this”. Interestingly, by mere definition of “ahead of me”, this simply cannot be true for everyone. Everyone can’t be behind … everyone else. And in fact, this is one of the worst things you can do to measure your learning success. **Do not measure your improvement by comparing yourself to others.**

What you can do is to make it your goal to improve by a small amount each day so that each day, you are a little more skilled than you were yesterday.

## How to Succeed when you get discouraged…

**Programming is hard**. Really hard. And truthfully, it is not for everyone. Though the process is extremely rewarding, the reward does not come easily.  The process is an emotional one, and not something to be taken lightly.  But remember: You are not alone in this feeling. This assessment is meant to give you a small taste of what this process is like. If you are someone who can work through challenges and frustrations, and who gets enjoyment from solving tricky problems, then this career can be an incredibly fulfilling one. 

Every programmer, including myself, started out in your shoes: I knew nothing, no data types, no variables, no loops, no nothing.  And even though I have come a long way… even I am still a “student” that gets discouraged, exhausted, and frustrated at times when learning new concepts.

One of the most important principles to learn as a Software Engineer is the skill of figuring out how to do something you didn’t know how to do 5 minutes ago. Even Senior Software Engineers learn the necessary skills on the job (not before the job).

So, throughout this Intro to Coding Course, and throughout the following bootcamp, when you get discouraged, don’t focus on what you don’t know. Instead, remember the words of Chris Pine: **“Programming isn't about what you know; it's about what you can figure out.”** This is every bit true of programming, and especially true of your time in the bootcamp.  

**Trust the process.  You can do this!  You will do this.  You will become a Software Engineer.**